We've seen how to use the execute method on RetryTemplate.
Now,
let's look at the two setter methods on RetryTemplate that
enable us to tune its behavior via policies.
The first is setRetryPolicy.
This setter accepts an implementation of the RetryPolicy interface.
The RetryPolicy interface is implemented by a few different policy classes,
but the one we'll be using is SimpleRetryPolicy.
SimpleRetryPolicy's constructor allows us to specify the maximum number
of times to attempt an operation via an integer value.
The second RetryTemplate policy setter method is setBackOffPolicy.
This setter accepts an implementation of the BackOffPolicy interface.
The BackOffPolicy interface is also implemented by
a few different policy classes.
We'll start with FixedBackOffPolicy,
but we'll also be using ExponentialBackOffPolicy later in this module.
FixedBackOffPolicy has a setBackOffPeriod method,
which accepts a backOffPeriod of type long.
This is the time RetryTemplate will wait between attempts,
and in this case it's a fixed period.
We referenced Spring Retry's default back off and max attempts,
and now we can see how we're able to customize these parameters for
ourselves using FixedBackOffPolicy or ExponentialBackOffPolicy for back
off and SimpleRetryPolicy for max attempts.
To configure custom retry policies in our SaaS Bass sample application,
we first need to specify a SimpleRetryPolicy with maxAttempts
that we'll read from our properties files.
Then we need to specify a FixedBackOffPolicy with a
backoffPeriod from our properties file.
Lastly, we'll set both policies on our RetryTemplate.
All right, enough talk.
Let's code.
To follow along with this demo, for the Bass Tracker Service,
check out either the initial branch if you want to code along,
or the final branch if you want to follow along.
For the Lake Profile Service, we're not making any changes in this module,
so check out the branch with the module name.
Here in our BassTrackerServiceApplication file,
we want to start by adding a SimpleRetryPolicy.
We will add that in our RetryTemplate bean.
We need to specify a maxAttempts parameter in the SimpleRetryPolicy constructor.
So let's add a property to our properties file.
We will name it retry.maxAttempts, and we will set it to 4.
Then we will go back to our RetryTemplate bean and add an
integer parameter that we can use for maxAttempts,
and pass it into the policy constructor.
Now we will set the setRetryPolicy setter on
RetryTemplate with our new retryPolicy.
After setting the retryPolicy, we can set the back off policy.
Let's start in the properties file by specifying a property named
retry.fixed .backoffPeriod and set it to 1000 ms,
or 1 second.
Then, let's go back to our RetryTemplate bean,
pass in the parameter, create a new FixedBackOffPolicy,
and pass the BackoffPeriod to its setBackOffPeriod setter method.
Then we can pass it to RetryTemplate's setBackOffPolicy method.
Now before we run it to see what it does,
let's add a log to the LakeProfileClient so we can see what the back off
duration is each time Spring Retry attempts a GET request.
Let's also switch over to lake-profile- services GET endpoint and
throw a socket exception for every GET request.
We're doing this so that the operating system's TCP stack
connection timeout doesn't interfere with our timing.
Okay, let's start up the lake-profile-service,
then let's switch over to the bass-tracker- service and start it.
We see that our back off duration was very close to 1000 ms.
A fixed back off policy is a good start,
and I'd recommend starting with a fixed back off policy if your microservice
architecture is relatively simple with minimal concurrency.
However, for large, highly concurrent microservice environments,
a fixed back off policy could be problematic. We will examine why this is and look at implementing a better solution next.